---
content_type: page
description: There are a multitude of engineering societies that cover all engineering
  careers, some of which focus on particular populations.
draft: false
title: Community-Focused Engineering Societies
uid: 7c445ba5-1b4c-4962-a54d-e74fc4db0058
---
{{< resource uuid="911a2a16-5df8-44c3-bf99-3b39c1693d08" >}}

There are a multitude of engineering societies that cover all engineering careers, some of which focus on particular populations. Examples include:

- {{% resource_link "58c89fc0-f53f-4afd-9ba8-e3d20352e01c" "Alpha Omega Epsilon" %}}: Alpha Omega Epsilon is a professional and social sorority for female engineering and technical science students and alumnae. It promotes ideals and objectives that further the advancement of female engineers and scientists.
- {{% resource_link "a7fd9a6d-3016-4ac1-a69e-b9ac89f7bb33" "American Association for the Advancement of Science's Entry Point!" %}}: Entry Point! identifies and recruits students with apparent and non-apparent disabilities who are majoring in science, engineering, mathematics, computer science, and some fields of business for internship and co-op opportunities. Students are screened and referred to program partners, who seek specific skills and majors, for consideration of being placed in a summer internship or co-op.
- {{% resource_link "4ad32cf9-4100-4497-82e1-b7fc5b8d1f61" "American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES)" %}}: AISES is a private, non-profit organization which nurtures building of community by bridging science and technology with traditional Native values. It is focused on increasing the representation of indigenous peoples of North America and the Pacific Islands in STEM careers.
- {{% resource_link "8c5fc5af-29e7-499c-817b-6b008fdc089a" "Association for Women in Science (AWIS)" %}}: The society is dedicated to achieving equity and full participation for women in science, mathematics, engineering, and technology.
- {{% resource_link "239384e7-6853-4bea-943e-3d262647cf59" "EngineerGirl" %}}: The EngineerGirl website is designed to bring national attention to the exciting opportunities that engineering represents for girls and women.  Why girls and women? Despite an increase in female participation in many traditionally male-dominated professions such as medicine and law, women remain grossly under-represented in engineering. Engineering and engineers are central to the process of innovation, and innovation drives economic growth.  Diversity of thought is crucial to creativity, and by leaving women out of the process of innovation, we lose a key component of diversity and stifle innovation. We want the creative problem-solvers of tomorrow to fully represent the world's population, because they will be the ones to ensure our health, happiness, and safety in years to come.
- {{% resource_link "7a159947-3115-48f8-a386-a66747e41607" "IEEE Women in Engineering (WIE)" %}}: IEEE WIE is one of the world’s leaders in changing the face of engineering. Our global network connects nearly 20,000 members in over 100 countries to advance women in technology at all points in their life and career. IEEE WIE members make lifelong friendships, acquire influential mentors, and make a difference for the benefit of humanity.
- {{% resource_link "846f1e23-7ce8-4eca-9572-0225e8ac077c" "National Organization for the Professional Advancement of Black Chemists and Chemical Engineers (NOBCChE)" %}}: NOBCChE is a non-profit professional organization dedicated to assisting black and other minority students and professionals in fully realizing their potential in academic, professional, and entrepreneurial pursuits in chemistry, chemical engineering, and allied fields.
- {{% resource_link "420c2656-b670-48f2-b692-49ffdd547ebf" "National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)" %}}: NSBE's mission is to increase the number of culturally responsible Black engineers who excel academically, succeed professionally, and positively impact the community.
- {{% resource_link "22af6a25-d4f8-4255-9316-9387b8d99428" "Out to Innovate" %}} (formerly National Organization of Gay and Lesbian Scientists and Technical Professionals/NOGLSTP): Out to Innovate is a professional society that educates and advocates for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer students and professionals in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
- {{% resource_link "f0e5760e-3ed1-4ab9-be54-804582a5c312" "Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (oSTEM)" %}}: oSTEM is a professional association for LGBTQ+ people in the STEM community. With over 100 student chapters at colleges/universities and professional chapters in cities across the United States and abroad, oSTEM is the largest chapter-based organization focused on LGBTQ+ people in STEM.
- {{% resource_link "d05ff7e8-ff7d-4516-b64b-d57e7fc1d65a" "Society of American Military Engineers (SAME)" %}}: SAME's mission is to bring the Nation's engineers together in peacetime so they can be effectively engaged in emergencies.
- {{% resource_link "c1b80192-eb9e-4de9-bbe4-7391acf4dd37" "Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)" %}}: SHPE promotes the development of Hispanics in engineering, science, and other technical professions to achieve educational excellence, economic opportunity, and social equity.
- {{% resource_link "20458693-fc0b-4b3e-9f10-bf4892eebb60" "MAES: Latinos in Science and Engineering" %}}: MAES projects the positive image of its members and their accomplishments and provides a networking and nurturing environment to develop their professional image.
- {{% resource_link "37b3de82-6d94-4d4c-affc-68185e24e4f8" "Society of Women Engineers (SWE)" %}}: 1SWE stimulates women to achieve full potential in careers as engineers and leaders, expands the image of the engineering profession as a positive force in improving the quality of life, and demonstrates the value of diversity.
- {{% resource_link "3d1e20a1-176c-4f58-a9eb-1b36eae897d0" "Women in Cybersecurity (WiCyS)" %}}: "At WiCyS, a global community of women, male allies and advocates, we are dedicated to bringing talented women together to celebrate and foster their passion and drive for cybersecurity. WiCyS unites local communities of aspiring and thriving women cybersecurity professionals across the world to collaborate, share their knowledge, network and mentor. They create opportunities through professional development programs, conferences, career fairs, and more."
- {{% resource_link "b1b08557-a678-4aa8-8991-75897738cdd0" "Women in Engineering ProActive Network (WEPAN)" %}}: WEPAN is a national not-for-profit organization that works to transform culture in engineering education to attract, retain, and graduate women.
- {{% resource_link "544ab354-8184-4326-86eb-e3f189e0b1a6" "Women of Color Research Network (WOCRN)" %}}: The Women of Color Research Network (WOCRN) was created to provide women of color and supporters of their advancement in the biomedical sciences information about the NIH grants process, advice on career development, and a forum for networking and sharing information.
- {{% resource_link "9523aecf-4721-4108-8842-f7b48932b494" "Women’s Society of Cyberjutsu" %}}: The Women’s Society of Cyberjutsu (WSC), is dedicated to raising awareness of cybersecurity career opportunities and advancement for women in the field, closing the gender gap and the overall workforce gap in information security roles.
- {{% resource_link "18025f84-7e3c-4a55-b697-9ea6482a30b3" "Chinese Institute of Engineers (CIE-USA)" %}}: Found in 1917, Chinese Institute of Engineers – USA (CIE-USA) is a non-profit professional organization of Chinese-American engineers, scientists and other professionals. The objectives of CIE-USA are to promote Science, Engineering, Technology and Mathematics (STEM) in all communities across United States and provide recognition to the APA professionals at the national level.
- {{% resource_link "224c840d-673b-4c36-9283-76b97de5f8b8" "Society of Asian Scientists and Engineers (SASE)" %}}: The Society of Asian Scientists and Engineers (SASE) was founded in November 2007 to help Asian heritage scientific and engineering professionals achieve their full potential.
- {{% resource_link "52ef0042-b791-48dc-885f-2c108cd23e2f" "Lesbians Who Tech & Allies" %}}: Lesbians Who Tech & Allies is a community of LGBT+ women, non-binary and trans individuals in and around tech (and the people who support them).
- {{% resource_link "6d465276-acaf-4b2e-8c05-feb6249c3af8" "Queer in Stem" %}}: We are an organization which builds the right platform to support gender minorities and help them find their dream jobs without the discrimination that they usually face in society. We help them in building their confidence and help them get comfortable with their personality.
- {{% resource_link "0491bfdd-d36c-450b-9b39-badb30abac72" "Minorities in Physics" %}}: APS is committed to the inclusion of underrepresented minorities in physics and has spent decades working on programs to increase recruitment and retention of African American, Hispanic American, and Indigenous physicists.
- {{% resource_link "35f0846f-127b-4bbf-b1bd-349572cf1c6f" "Research in Disabilities Education (RDE)" %}}: The Research in Disabilities Education (RDE) program advances the goal of broadening the participation and achievement of postsecondary students with disabilities in STEM.

#### **Sources:**

Wikipedia, {{% resource_link "8015e923-a26a-40c7-83ea-a658247ebd74" "Engineering Professional Associations & Organizations" %}}, {{% resource_link "e61c7de9-80f0-42c5-b565-8c1fb372e428" "Engineering Societies & Organizations" %}}